Speaking in a conversational manner means talking in a natural, sincere way that conveys how you feel.
While this might sound simple, it can be a challenge when you're nervous.
These four steps can help.
Pray.
Prepare carefully.
Speak from the heart.
Look at your listeners.
This is important when we give talks and when we share in the ministry.
Let's see why as we watch these examples of public witnessing.
Take whatever you want. There's no charge.
That's okay, maybe another time.
Could the brothers' manner have been more conversational?
Well, he could have tried to make eye contact.
What about his posture, gestures, and facial expressions?
Let's watch a better example.
Good morning.
You're welcome to take whatever you like.
Thank you.
Do you think we'll ever see an end to suffering?
I'm not really sure.
If you have just a moment, I'd like to show you what the Bible has to say.
Okay.
A friendly manner opened the way to a conversation.
It can also help when we're giving a talk.
We should try to speak in our own words.
Let's observe these examples.
When Jesus was nailed to the stake in 33 CE,
it hardly looked possible that he could have a kingdom at all.
But in his preaching of the kingdom of God,
he had not been a proclaimer of erroneous news.
On the third day after his death,
the founder of the kingdom made sure that the disciples of Jesus
would not be offering a prayer for a government that was not possible.
Jehovah resurrected the one who was to represent him in the prayed for kingdom
and clothed him with immortality.
Did you understand the words of the speaker?
Most likely.
Was it spiritual food?
Yes.
Was he using conversational manner?
Not really.
Could he have had more eye contact with his audience?
Yes.
Let's watch the speaker present the information in his own words.
Jesus preached about God's kingdom and taught his followers to pray for it.
But when he died in 33 CE,
they may have wondered if the kingdom really would come.
Any doubts they had were erased.
Three days later, when Jehovah resurrected his son,
the future king of his kingdom.
A natural, sincere delivery is more appealing.
It holds people's attention, puts them at ease,
and makes them more receptive to what you have to say.